feat: documentation of the Design package (#1178)
AmadeusITGroup/otter: docs/design/TECHNICAL_DOCUMENTATION.md

# Design tools technical documentation

> Otter framework exposes a set of tools to optimize the interactions between the designers and the developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Otter framework exposes a set of tools to optimize the interactions between the designers and the developers.
```

> The purpose of these tools is to reduce the steps between the design of the solution and the integration to the applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of these tools is to reduce the steps between the design of the solution and its integration into the application.
```

## Design Token

> The [Design Token specification](https://design-tokens.github.io/community-group/format/) define a dialog format between the design tools (such as [Figma](https://www.figma.com)) and a style language (CSS , Sass, Less, etc...).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Design Token specification](https://design-tokens.github.io/community-group/format/) defines an interface between design tools (such as [Figma](https://www.figma.com)) and a style language (CSS , Sass, Less, etc...).
```

> The Otter Framework provides **Builder**, **Schematic** and **Command Line Interface** to generate CSS Variable and/or Sass Variable, based on the inputted Design Token files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Otter Framework provides **Builders**, **Schematics** and **Command Line Interfaces** to generate CSS Variables and/or Sass Variables, based on the input Design Token files.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Otter Framework can help you translate a Design Token file into CSS and/or Sass variables thanks to its **Builders**, **Schematics** and **Command Line Interfaces**.
```

A link to an example or some command lines to illustrate the common usage of the feature would be nice to help a user understand how to use it. (No need to go into details - this would just be an introduction to help visualize the feature)

Reviewer 2: thanks to the provided

Author: Actually I do not want to encourage the usage of it.

> The Otter Framework provide a **Builder**, **Schematic** ann **Command Line Interface** to generate CSS Variable and/or Sass Variable, based on the inputted Design Token files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Otter Framework provides **Builder**, **Schematic** and **Command Line Interface** to generate CSS Variable and/or Sass Variable, based on the inputted Design Token files.
```

### Global architecture of the Parser and Renderer

> The Design Token code generator tool is technically split in two main features :

Reviewer: Not sure why but I want to fix it with:
```suggestion
The Design Token code generator tool is technically split into two main features :
```
@sdo-1A: What do you think? :)

Reviewer 2: I agree and remove the space between "features" and ":" --> `features:`

Reviewer: I edited the suggestion

> The Design Token code generator tool is technically split in two mains features :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Design Token code generator tool is technically split in two main features :
```

- The **parsers** that will parse and decode the Design Token Specification.
- The **renderers** that will generate the output (mainly code) based on the decoded Design Token Specification.

> Both of these features can be customized a different levels. They can be customize thanks to parameter exposes by parsers and renderers **factory functions**, or they be completely re-implemented and injected into the Design Token Code generator.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Both of these features can be customized at different levels. They can be customized thanks to parameter exposed by parsers and renderers **factory functions**, or they can be completely re-implemented and injected into the Design Token Code generator.
```

### Parsers

Currently the [o3r/design](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/tree/main/packages/@o3r/design) package provides only a single [parser](https://github.com/AmadeusITGroup/otter/tree/main/packages/@o3r/design/src/core/design-token/parsers).

> This parser handle the Design Token Specification as JSON file (or loaded object resulting of a parsing of the JSON file) and result to an object facilitating the tree navigation and the final value calculation to the renderers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This parser handles the Design Token Specification as a JSON file (or a loaded object resulting of the parsing of the JSON file) and results in an object facilitating the tree navigation and the value computed by the renderers.
```

Reviewer 2: small s for specification

### Renderers

> The package is exposing 3 renderers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The package exposes 3 renderers:
```

> - **CSS** Renderer generating CSS Variables according to the specification *(default renderer)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CSS** Renderer generating CSS Variables *(default renderer)*
```

- **Sass** Renderer generating Sass Variables according to the specification

> - **Metadata** renderer that will create the metadata file compatible with the Otter CMS solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Metadata** The renderer that will create the metadata file compatible with the Otter CMS solution.
```
or 
```suggestion
- **Metadata**: Renderer that will create the metadata file compatible with the Otter CMS solution.
```

It could be nice to link a documentation - do we have one for the CMS solution?

Reviewer: Maybe I would drop the "Renderer that will create" which seems a bit heavy word-wise.
I would prefer something like 
```suggestion
- **Metadata** can generate the metadata file compatible with the Otter CMS solution.
```

### Example of Code Generator usage

#### Example: Basic renderer usage

```typescript
import { parseDesignTokenFile, renderDesignTokens } from '@o3r/design';

(async () => {

>   /** List of Design Token item parsed */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  /** List of parsed Design Token items*/
```

  const parsedTokenDesign = await parseDesignTokenFile('./path/to/spec.json');

  // Render the CSS Variable
  await renderDesignTokens(parsedTokenDesign, { logger: console });

})();
```

##### Example: CSS Renderer with Sass Fallback

```typescript
import { getCssTokenDefinitionRenderer, getSassTokenDefinitionRenderer, parseDesignTokenFile, renderDesignTokens } from '@o3r/design';

(async () => {

>   /** List of Design Token item parsed */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  /** List of parsed Design Token items */
```

  const parsedTokenDesign = await parseDesignTokenFile('./path/to/spec.json');

  /** Sass Variable Renderer */
  const sassTokenDefinitionRenderer = getSassTokenDefinitionRenderer();

  /** CSS Variable Renderer */
  const cssTokenDefinitionRenderer = getCssTokenDefinitionRenderer({
    // Specify that the private variable should be rendered in Sass variable
    privateDefinitionRenderer: sassTokenDefinitionRenderer
  });

  // Render the CSS Variable
  await renderDesignTokens(parsedTokenDesign, { tokenDefinitionRenderer: cssTokenDefinitionRenderer });

})();
```

##### Example: Implement a Less Renderer

```typescript
import { getCssTokenDefinitionRenderer, getSassTokenDefinitionRenderer, parseDesignTokenFile, renderDesignTokens } from '@o3r/design';

> /** Option of the Less variable renderer */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/** Options of the Less variable renderer */
```
I know we need a typedoc for all public interface but it is a bit "it does what it says" :P
